This is Catherine McShane and I'm interviewing for the Swicker Carnival Project Cardiff Carnival
25th anniversary. I'm here with Ailur McShane on the 22nd of October 2014 and we're in Peniland
in Cardiff. Ailur, for the recording could you spell your name for me? E-I-L-I-R-M-C-S-H-A-N-E.
Thank you. So how did you first get involved with Cardiff Carnival?
I was small and my mum took me to the carnival.
What's your first memory of being in the carnival?
I remember my first memory which I still have is I remember getting dressed and I don't know what
year but I remember my brother was a blue devil.
And do you remember what you were? No.
Okay over the years do you know what costumes you've played?
I think I've done a gyms, I've done blue devils, I've done dragon a few times.
I've been in a teardrop backpack, I've been in a cloud backpack, I've been in totem pole masks.
So quite a few things. Do you know how old you were when you first started carnival?
No idea. No idea. So is it as far back as you can remember you've been in the carnival?
Yeah. Can you ever remember watching it?
Or have you always been in it? Not the carnival parade, I've watched like
you know on the wow I watched like a dragon performance when yeah I watched that one but
not the parade no I haven't watched the parade ever. So you've always actually been in it? Yes.
And who have you been with when you've been in the parade? My dad and my mum. Okay.
And what is it about card of carnival that you like? It's just fun to make costumes in
the parade down the streets it's just fun because it's nice to do it. Good atmosphere.
Good atmosphere. So the three weeks of making and preparing for the carnival. Mass camp.
Mass camp. Have you made lots of friends there? Not really. No? So what do you do when you're there?
Makes laugh for me. Oh so you're more involved in the making? Yeah.
Yeah. Or having cups of tea. Having cups of tea. Yeah. And what about the carnival crew that
helped with the making? Can you remember any of the people who helped you with making?
Like the people in the blue t-shirts? Yeah. Oh yeah? Remember June?
Adrian. Becky. Caroline used to be in it. A lot.
So what is it about carnival that keeps you interested and keeps you coming year after year?
It's just to join it and just have fun making and walking down the streets and stuff. It's
just fun to make stuff. And the costumes are they your ideas? Yeah sometimes. Yeah.
So which ones have been your idea? My idea was for turtle. The clouds. The totem pole and masks.
That's it. They sound like quite big costumes. Yeah. Were they heavy to wear? Yeah very heavy.
They give you problems in the back. It really hurt. But it's fun when you got to the end though.
It's good. So at the end of the parade were you very tired? Yes. And how did the crowd react
to your costumes? Smiling and clapping. Yeah.
What's your favourite part of carnival?
The making. I did like the making. Yeah maybe the making. What's your least favourite bit of carnival?
The heavy stuff. And rain. Rain. That's bad. Have you been rained on in the parade? Yes.
Um it's about it. Not too much.
Yeah I suppose that's it.
And would you be in the carnival again? Yeah. Do you have ideas for
what you want to do next? Yeah. Oh what are they? A sheep. A sheep? Yeah a sheep. Why a sheep?
Because I like sheep. Or maybe a cow. That's a bad one. It's a hard one. Go on.
And when you've seen other people's costumes have you had a favourite in terms of what other
people have been wearing? The other designs. Um don't think so.
I like the bunny. The bunny? The hair. More like. The hair was good. The big puppet? Yes the big
puppet hair. Any others? Or the um pigeons. No not the seagulls. The seagulls? Yes that was good.
Who were the seagulls? Castle Blake and Castleman and
and yeah. I'm always good about them. They were funny because they were going around the crowd
and they were jumping and dancing around chips and stuff and they were like picking up bins and
their beaks. So they were they were kind of like the comedy comedy seagulls? Yeah.
Okay thank you very much.